README.md, before:

# libmtdac

[![Language grade: C/C++](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/cpp/g/ac000/libmtdac.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/ac000/libmtdac/context:cpp)

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [API](#api)
3. [Build it](#build-it)
4. [Register with HMRC](#register-with-hmrc)
5. [How to use](#how-to-use)
6. [Fraud Prevention Headers](#fraud-prevention-headers)
7. [Thread safety](#thread-safety)
8. [License](#license)
9. [Contributing](#contributing)

## Overview

An interface to the UK's HMRC [Make Tax Digital](https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/api-documentation) API


## API

There are man pages [here](https://github.com/ac000/libmtdac/tree/master/man/man3) and a basic overview [here](https://github.com/ac000/libmtdac/blob/master/API.md).


## Build it

libmtdac only has a couple of direct dependencies, *libcurl* & *jansson*

On Red Hat/Fedora/etc you will need the

    libcurl{,-devel}
    jansson{,-devel}

packages.

On Debian (something like...)

    libcurl4{,-openssl-dev}
    libjansson{4,-dev}

The simplest way is to build the rpm (on Red Hat/Fedora) by simply doing

    $ make rpm

in the repository root. It just needs a suitable *rpmbuild/* directory
structure which can be created with

    $ mkdir -p ~/rpmbuild/{BUILD,RPMS,SOURCES,SPECS,SRPMS}

and the *rpmbuild* tool which can be found in the *rpm-build* package.


## Register with HMRC

Before you can actually make use of this, you will need to register the
application with the HMRC developer hub. You can register an account
[here](https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/developer/registration).

Once you've registered you can then regsiter your application by the following
steps

1. Goto https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/developer/applications

    Click on "Add an application to the sandbox" on the left hand side.

2. Select required endpoints (can be changed later)

   No harm in at least selecting all the ones marked *MTD*

3. Generate and take note of the 'client\_id' & 'client\_secret'

4. Click on "View your application details"

5. Click on "Redirect URIs"

6. Click on "Add a redirect URI"

5. Paste in (minus the quotes) "urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob"


## How to use

Include the appropriate header file(s) as described above and link with
*-lmtdac* assuming you've built and installed the RPM or similar.

### Examples

For real world examples of usage see

- [mtd-cli](https://github.com/ac000/mtd-cli)
- [itsa](https://github.com/ac000/itsa)

## Fraud Prevention Headers

HMRC describe various headers that must be added for [Fraud Prevention](https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/api-documentation/docs/fraud-prevention)

Some of the information sent in the headers contains somewhat potentially
sensitive information, such as OS username, local IP addresses/mac addresses
and a unique device id.

Caveat Emptor.

What is sent for each header can be overridden. See the
[Fraud Prevention Headers](API.md#fraud-prevention-headers) section of
**API.md** for more details.


## Thread safety

libmtdac aims to be thread safe. I.E it should be safe to call the various
library functions (incl mtd\_init()) from multiple threads.


## License

This library is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL)
version 2.1

See *COPYING* in the repository root for details.


## Contributing

See *CodingStyle.md* & *Contributing.md*

Commit message:

README.md: Mention FreeBSD support and build instructions
Signed-off-by: Andrew Clayton <andrew@digital-domain.net>

README.md, after:

# libmtdac

[![Language grade: C/C++](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/cpp/g/ac000/libmtdac.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/ac000/libmtdac/context:cpp)

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [API](#api)
3. [Build it](#build-it)
4. [Register with HMRC](#register-with-hmrc)
5. [How to use](#how-to-use)
6. [Fraud Prevention Headers](#fraud-prevention-headers)
7. [Thread safety](#thread-safety)
8. [License](#license)
9. [Contributing](#contributing)

## Overview

An interface to the UK's HMRC [Make Tax Digital](https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/api-documentation) API


## API

There are man pages [here](https://github.com/ac000/libmtdac/tree/master/man/man3) and a basic overview [here](https://github.com/ac000/libmtdac/blob/master/API.md).


## Build it

libmtdac is primarily developed under Linux but it also builds and runs under
FreeBSD.

### Linux

libmtdac only has a couple of direct dependencies, *libcurl* & *jansson*

On Red Hat/Fedora/etc you will need the

    libcurl{,-devel}
    jansson{,-devel}

packages.

On Debian (something like...)

    libcurl4{,-openssl-dev}
    libjansson{4,-dev}

The simplest way is to build the rpm (on Red Hat/Fedora) by simply doing

    $ make rpm

in the repository root. It just needs a suitable *rpmbuild/* directory
structure which can be created with

    $ mkdir -p ~/rpmbuild/{BUILD,RPMS,SOURCES,SPECS,SRPMS}

and the *rpmbuild* tool which can be found in the *rpm-build* package.

### FreeBSD

As as well as curl and jansson libraries it also requires libuuid and gmake
to build

    $ sudo pkg install gmake jansson curl e2fsprogs-libuuid

then build with

    $ gmake

or if you don't have GCC installed

    $ gmake CC=clang


## Register with HMRC

Before you can actually make use of this, you will need to register the
application with the HMRC developer hub. You can register an account
[here](https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/developer/registration).

Once you've registered you can then regsiter your application by the following
steps

1. Goto https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/developer/applications

    Click on "Add an application to the sandbox" on the left hand side.

2. Select required endpoints (can be changed later)

   No harm in at least selecting all the ones marked *MTD*

3. Generate and take note of the 'client\_id' & 'client\_secret'

4. Click on "View your application details"

5. Click on "Redirect URIs"

6. Click on "Add a redirect URI"

5. Paste in (minus the quotes) "urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob"


## How to use

Include the appropriate header file(s) as described above and link with
*-lmtdac* assuming you've built and installed the RPM or similar.

### Examples

For real world examples of usage see

- [mtd-cli](https://github.com/ac000/mtd-cli)
- [itsa](https://github.com/ac000/itsa)

## Fraud Prevention Headers

HMRC describe various headers that must be added for [Fraud Prevention](https://developer.service.hmrc.gov.uk/api-documentation/docs/fraud-prevention)

Some of the information sent in the headers contains somewhat potentially
sensitive information, such as OS username, local IP addresses/mac addresses
and a unique device id.

Caveat Emptor.

What is sent for each header can be overridden. See the
[Fraud Prevention Headers](API.md#fraud-prevention-headers) section of
**API.md** for more details.


## Thread safety

libmtdac aims to be thread safe. I.E it should be safe to call the various
library functions (incl mtd\_init()) from multiple threads.


## License

This library is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL)
version 2.1

See *COPYING* in the repository root for details.


## Contributing

See *CodingStyle.md* & *Contributing.md*
