.TH result_buffer 3 "June 1, 2020" "libmtdac 0.9.0" "libmtdac overview"

.SH NAME
result_buffer \- UK HMRC Make Tax Digital API interface

.SH DESCRIPTION
Every mtd_ENDPOINT_* function takes at least a
.PP
.RS 8
.BI "char **" buf
.RE
.PP
parameter.
.PP
This should be defined in the client as a \fBchar *VAR\fP and passed in as
\fB&VAR\fP.
.PP
This will then be set to a dynamically allocated buffer in libmtdac and should
then be \fBfree(3)\fP'd when finished with.

This buffer will hold a JSON string that will be a JSON array with one or more
results. E.g

.TP 8
.B Note:
The JSON in the below examples is formatted, what you actually get is just the
raw unformatted buffer.
 
.RS 4
.EX
[
    {
        "status_code": 401,
        "status_str": "Unauthorized",
        "url": "https://test-api.service.hmrc.gov.uk/self-assessment/ni/BT298841B/self-employments",
        "method": "GET",
        "result": {
            "code": "INVALID_CREDENTIALS",
            "message": "Invalid Authentication information provided"
        }
    },
    {
        "status_code": 200,
        "status_str": "OK",
        "url": "https://test-api.service.hmrc.gov.uk/self-assessment/ni/BT298841B/self-employments",
        "method": "GET",
        "result": [
            {
                "id": "XLIS30136623765",
                "accountingPeriod": {
                    "start": "2017-04-06",
                    "end": "2018-04-05"
                },
                "accountingType": "CASH",
                "commencementDate": "2016-01-01",
                "tradingName": "Acme Ltd.",
                "businessAddressLineOne": "1 Acme Rd.",
                "businessAddressLineTwo": "London",
                "businessAddressLineThree": "Greater London",
                "businessAddressLineFour": "United Kingdom",
                "businessPostcode": "A9 9AA"
            }
        ]
    }
]
.EE
.RE

.PP

That shows an array with two responses. The first was caused by the access
token having expired. libmtdac automatically refreshed it and tried the request
again, the result of which is the second item in the result array.

.PP

Some of the above is added by libmtdac, the \fBresult\fP object is what is
generally sent back by HMRC.

.PP

In some cases linmtdac adds extra information to the \fBresult\fP object such
the \fBlocation\fP field in the following

.RS 4
.EX
[
    {
        "status_code": 202,
        "status_str": "Accepted",
        "url": "https://test-api.service.hmrc.gov.uk/self-assessment/ni/BT298841B/calculations",
        "method": "POST",
        "result": {
            "etaSeconds": 5,
            "location": "/self-assessment/ni/BT298841B/calculations/77427777"
        }
    }
]
.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3)

