.TH MTD_BSAS_SE_GET_SUMMARY 3 "June 1, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_bsas_se_get_summary \-  retrieve a self-employment Business Source
Adjustable Summary

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-bsas.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_bsas_se_get_summary(const char *" bid ", const char *" query_string ",
.BI "                            char **" buf );
.ni

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function is part of the UK's HMRC Make Tax Digital Business Source
Adjustable Summaries API.
.PP
This function allows a developer to request a specific Business Source
Adjustable Summary (BSAS) using a unique identifier. By default, when it is
available the adjusted summary is returned. A filter can be set to specify
whether the original or the adjusted is returned, (see \fBquery_string\fP
below).

.TP 4
.B bid
.RS 4
This is the bsasId and is in the form
.RE

.RS 8
^[0-9]{8}|[0-9a-f]{8}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[1-5][0-9a-f]{3}-[89ab][0-9a-f]{3}-[0-9a-f]{12}$
.RE

.TP
.B query_string
This is optional and is of the form
.PP
.RS 8
[?adjustedStatus={true,false}]
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a positive error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP 4
.B MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
