.TH MTD_IC_TRIGGER_CALCULATION 3 "July 29, 2022" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_ic_trigger_calculation \- trigger a self-assessment tax calculation for a
given tax year

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-ic.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_ic_trigger_calculation(const char *" tax_year ,
.BI "                               const char *" query_string ", char **" buf );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function allows the developer to trigger a self-assessment tax
calculation for a given tax year. It should be called whenever income data
is updated via
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_period (3)
or
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_annual_summary (3).
.PP
To trigger a final declaration self assessment tax calculation, you must
supply the finalDeclaration query parameter as true,
.PP
It can take up to 5 seconds for a Calculation ID to be returned when
triggering a tax calculation.
.PP
The result of the calculation can be seen using the
.BR mtd_ic_get_calculation (3)
function.

.TP 4
.B tax_year
.RS 4
This is the taxYear and is in the form
.RE

.RS 8
YYYY-YY
.RE

.TP
.B query_string
.RS 4
This is optional and is only used when submitting a final declaration, where
you should use
.PP
.RS 4
\fB?finalDeclaration=true\fP
.RE
.PP
Though you can use it any other time if you set it to \fBfalse\fP.
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3),
.BR mtd_ic_get_calculation (3),
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_period (3),
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_annual_summary (3)
