.TH MTD_IL_LC_UPDATE_LOSS_ORDER 3 "June 7, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_il_lc_update_loss_order \- update individual loss claims order

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-il.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_il_lc_update_loss_order(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                                const char *" query_string ", char **" buf );
.ni

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function allows developers to change the sequence in which certain losses
are used.
.PP
.BI NOTE:
This is only available in the test environment.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3)
.PP
.RS 4
E.g
.RE
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "claimType": "carry-sideways",
    "listOfLossClaims": [
        {
            "id": "1234567890ABCDE",
            "sequence": 2
        },
        {
            "id": "1234567890ABDE0",
            "sequence": 3
        },
        {
            "id": "1234567890ABEF1",
            "sequence": 1
        }
    ]
}
.EE
.RE

.PP

.TP
.B query_string
.RS 4
This is an optional (can be NULL) query string that specifies the tax year to
operate on. It is of the following form

.RE

.RS 8
?taxYear=YYYY-YY
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a positive error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP 4
.B MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
