.TH MTD_IC_SA_TRIGGER_CALCULATION 3 "June 7, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_ic_sa_trigger_calculation \- trigger a self-assessment tax calculation for
a given tax year

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-ic.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_ic_sa_trigger_calculation(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                                  char **" buf );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function allows the developer to trigger a self-assessment tax
calculation for a given tax year (see \fBsrc_file\fP below). It should be
called whenever income data is updated via
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_period (3)
or
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_annual_summary (3).
It can take up to 5 seconds for a Calculation ID to be returned when
triggering a tax calculation.
.PP
The result of the calculation can be seen using the
.BR mtd_ic_sa_get_calculation_meta (3)
function.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3).
The JSON should look like
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "taxYear": "2017-18"
}
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3),
.BR mtd_ic_sa_get_calculation_meta (3),
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_period (3),
.BR mtd_sa_se_update_annual_summary (3)
