.TH MTD_TEST_CU_CREATE_ORGANISATION 3 "June 21, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_test_cu_create_organisation \- create a test user which is an organisation

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-test-cu.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_test_cu_create_organisation(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                                    char **" buf );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function creates and returns a test user which is an \fBorganisation\fP.
The caller can specify the required service enrolments in the request body. If
no request body is supplied, the test user is created with no service
enrolments.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3).
The JSON should look like
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "serviceNames": [
        "corporation-tax",
        "paye-for-employers",
        "submit-vat-returns",
        "national-insurance",
        "self-assessment",
        "mtd-income-tax",
        "mtd-vat",
        "lisa",
        "secure-electronic-transfer",
        "relief-at-source",
        "customs-services",
        "ics-safety-and-security"
    ]
}
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
