.TH MTD_TEST_NI_CREATE_ANNUAL_SUMMARY 3 "June 21, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_test_ni_create_annual_summary \- create national insurance summary test data

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-test-ni.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_test_ni_create_annual_summary(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                                      const char *" utr ",
.BI "                                      const char *" tax_year ", char **" buf );
.ni

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function lets you create National Insurance contributions test data.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3).
The JSON should look like
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
{
}
.EE
.RE

.RS 4
or (default, same as above)
.RE

.RS 8
.EX
{
    "scenario": "HAPPY_PATH_1"
}
.EE
.RE

.RS 4
or
.RE

.RS 8
.EX
{
    "scenario": "HAPPY_PATH_2"
}
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B utr
.RS 4
The 10 digit self-assessment Unique Tax Reference for the individual.
.RE

.TP 4
.B tax_year
This is the taxYear and is in the form
.PP
.RS 8
YYYY-MM-DD
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a positive error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP 4
.B MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
