.TH MTD_BSAS_FP_UPDATE_SUMMARY_ADJUSTMENTS 3 "March 30, 2022" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_bsas_fp_update_summary_adjustments \- update a foreign property Business
Source Adjustable Summary

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-bsas.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_bsas_fp_update_summary_adjustments(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                                           const char *" cid ", char **" buf );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function is part of the UK's HMRC Make Tax Digital Business Source
Adjustable Summaries API.
.PP
This function allows a developer to provide accounting adjustments against a
specified Business Source Accounting Summary quoting its unique identifier.
The \fBcalculationID\fP quoted must be for a Foreign Property Business, and it
must not have been adjusted previously. Only data for one property business
either foreign property (FHL EEA) or foreign property (Non FHL) should be
included in any submission.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3)
.PP
.RS 4
Scenario: Foreign Property EEA FHL
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "foreignFhlEea": {
        "income": {
            "totalRentsReceived": 1000.45
        },
        "expenses": {
            "premisesRunningCosts": 1001.00,
            "repairsAndMaintenance": -99999.99,
            "financialCosts": 200.50,
            "professionalFees": -99999.99,
            "costOfServices": -1000.45,
            "other": 500.00,
            "travelCosts": 100.00
        }
    }
}
.EE
.RE

.PP
.RS 4
 Scenario: Foreign Property EEA FHL with Consolidated
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "foreignFhlEea": {
        "income": {
            "totalRentsReceived": 1000.45
        },
        "expenses": {
            "consolidatedExpenses": 1000.45
        }
    }
}
.EE
.RE

.PP
.RS 4
 Scenario: Foreign Property (Non-FHL)
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "nonFurnishedHolidayLet":  [
        {
            "countryCode": "FRA",
            "income": {
                "totalRentsReceived": 1000.45,
                "premiumsOfLeaseGrant": -99.99,
                "otherPropertyIncome": 1000.00
            },
            "expenses": {
                "premisesRunningCosts": 1000.45,
                "repairsAndMaintenance": -99999.99,
                "financialCosts": 5000.45,
                "professionalFees": 300.99,
                "costOfServices": 500.00,
                "residentialFinancialCost": 9000.00,
                "other": 1000.00,
                "travelCosts": 99.99
            }
        }
    ]
}
.EE
.RE

.PP
.RS 4
 Scenario: Foreign Property (Non-FHL) with Consolidated
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "nonFurnishedHolidayLet": [
        {
            "countryCode": "FRA",
            "income": {
                "totalRentsReceived": 1000.45,
                "premiumsOfLeaseGrant": -99.99,
                "otherPropertyIncome": 1000.00
            },
            "expenses": {
                "consolidatedExpenses": 999.99
            }
        }
    ]
}
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B cid
.RS 4
This is the calculationId and is in the form
.RE

.RS 8
^[0-9]{8}|[0-9a-f]{8}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[1-5][0-9a-f]{3}-[89ab][0-9a-f]{3}-[0-9a-f]{12}$
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
