.TH MTD_BSAS_SE_UPDATE_SUMMARY_ADJUSTMENTS 3 "June 21, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_bsas_se_update_summary_adjustments \- update a self-employment Business
Source Adjustable Summary

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-bsas.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_bsas_se_update_summary_adjustments(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                                           const char *" bid ", char **" buf );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function is part of the UK's HMRC Make Tax Digital Business Source
Adjustable Summaries API.
.PP
This function allows a developer to provide accounting adjustments against a
specified Business Source Adjustable Summary (BSAS) using its unique
identifier. The BSAS ID (\fBbid\fP) used must be for a self-employment business
that has not been previously adjusted.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3)
.PP
.RS 4
Scenario: Full Expenses
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "income": {
        "turnover": 1000.49,
        "other": 1000.49
    },
    "expenses": {
        "costOfGoodsBought": -1000.49,
        "cisPaymentsToSubcontractors": 1000.49,
        "staffCosts": 1000.49,
        "travelCosts": 1000.49,
        "premisesRunningCosts": 1000.49,
        "maintenanceCosts": -1000.49,
        "adminCosts": 1000.49,
        "advertisingCosts": 1000.49,
        "businessEntertainmentCosts": 1000.49,
        "interest": 1000.49,
        "financialCharges": 1000.49,
        "badDebt": 1000.49,
        "professionalFees": 1000.49,
        "depreciation": 1000.49,
        "other": 1000.49
    },
    "additions": {
        "costOfGoodsBoughtDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "cisPaymentsToSubcontractorsDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "staffCostsDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "travelCostsDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "premisesRunningCostsDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "maintenanceCostsDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "adminCostsDisallowable": -1000.49,
        "advertisingCostsDisallowable": -1000.49,
        "businessEntertainmentCostsDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "interestDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "financialChargesDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "badDebtDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "professionalFeesDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "depreciationDisallowable": 1000.49,
        "otherDisallowable": 1000.49
    }
}
.EE
.RE

.PP
.RS 4
Scenario: Consolidated Expenses
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "income": {
        "turnover": 1000.49,
        "other": 1000.49
    },
    "expenses": {
        "consolidatedExpenses": -1000.49
    }
}
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B bid
.RS 4
This is the bsasId and is in the form
.RE

.RS 8
^[0-9]{8}|[0-9a-f]{8}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[1-5][0-9a-f]{3}-[89ab][0-9a-f]{3}-[0-9a-f]{12}$
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
