.TH MTD_BSAS_LIST_SUMMARIES 3 "March 26, 2022" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_bsas_list_summaries \- list Business Source Adjustable Summaries

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-bsas.h>
.PP
.BI "int mtd_bsas_list_summaries(const char *" query_string ", char **" buf );

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function is part of the UK's HMRC Make Tax Digital Business Source
Adjustable Summaries API.
.PP
This function allows a developer to generate a list of Business Source
Adjustable Summaries (BSAS) for a given tax year. A filter can be used to
return the BSAS for a single business or business type (see \fBquery_string\fP
below).

.TP 4
.B query_string
This is optional and is of the form
.PP
.RS 8
[?[selfEmploymentId=XNISNNNNNNNNNNN][&[typeOfBusiness={self-employment,uk-property-non-fhl,uk-property-fhl,foreign-property-fhl-eea,foreign-property}][&[taxYear=YYYY-YY]]]]
.RE

.RS 4
\fBselfEmploymentId\fP is optional and is in the form
.RE

.RS 8
^X[A-Z0-9]{1}IS[0-9]{11}$
.RE

.RS 4
\fBtypeOfBusiness\fP is optional and is \fBone\fP of the above shown values.

\fBtaxYear\fP is an optional tax year.
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
