.TH MTD_SA_SE_UPDATE_PERIOD 3 "June 7, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_sa_se_update_period \- update a self-employment periodic update

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-sa.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_sa_se_update_period(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                            const char *" seid ", const char *" period_id ",
.BI "                            char **" buf );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function allows a developer to update a self-employment periodic update.
Submissions which do not include any incomes or expenses are invalid. You
should submit zero values if you do not have incomes or expenses. Valid
payload may contain either expenses or consolidatedExpenses elements.
.PP
Valid payload may contain either expenses or consolidatedExpenses elements.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3)

.TP
.B seid
This is the selfEmploymentId and is in the form
.PP
.RS 8
^X[A-Z0-9]{1}IS[0-9]{11}$
.RE

.TP 4
.B period_id
This is the periodId

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
