.TH MTD_BSAS_TRIGGER_SUMMARY 3 "June 21, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_bsas_trigger_summary \- generate an end of accounting period Business Source Adjustable Summary

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-bsas.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_bsas_trigger_summary(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                             char **" buf );
.ni

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function is part of the UK's HMRC Make Tax Digital Business Source
Adjustable Summaries API.
.PP
This function allows a developer to generate an end of accounting period
Business Source Adjustable Summary (BSAS) of the income and expenditure for a
specified business for a given accounting period.
.PP
A BSAS must be generated before accounting adjustments are entered.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3)
.PP
.RS 4
Scenario: Self-employment Trigger
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "accountingPeriod": {
        "startDate": "2018-05-01",
        "endDate": "2019-04-30"
    },
    "typeOfBusiness": "self-employment",
    "selfEmploymentId": "X9IS98470026982"
}
.EE
.RE

.PP
.RS 4
Scenario: UK Property Non-FHL Trigger
.PP
.RE
.RS 8
.EX
{
    "accountingPeriod": {
        "startDate": "2018-05-01",
        "endDate": "2019-04-30"
    },
    "typeOfBusiness": "uk-property-non-fhl"
}
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
