.TH MTD_SA_SE_CREATE_PERIOD 3 "June 7, 2020" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_sa_se_create_period \- create a self-employment periodic update

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-sa.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_sa_se_create_period(const struct mtd_dsrc_ctx *" dsctx ",
.BI "                            const char *" seid ", char **" buf );
.ni

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function allows a developer to create a self-employment periodic update
for submission of periodic data i.e incomes and expenses. Submissions which do
not include any incomes or expenses are invalid. You should submit zero values
if you do not have incomes or expenses.
.PP
Valid payload may contain either expenses or consolidatedExpenses elements.

.TP 4
.B dsctx
This points to either a buffer, filename, file pointer or file descriptor that
contains the JSON payload to be sent. See
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3)

.TP
.B seid
This is the selfEmploymentId and is in the form
.PP
.RS 8
^X[A-Z0-9]{1}IS[0-9]{11}$
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a positive error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP 4
.B MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.TP
.B MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR mtd_dsrc_ctx (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
