.TH MTD_TEST_FPH_FEEDBACK 3 "August 3, 2021" "" "libmtdac"

.SH NAME

mtd_test_fph_feedback \- test fraud prevention headers validation feedback

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <libmtdac/mtd-test-fph.h>
.PP
.nf
.BI "int mtd_test_fph_feedback(const char *" api ", const char *" query_string ",
.BI "                          char **" buf );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This function would not normally be called by an end user. It's more meant
for testing libmtdac.
.PP
This function can be used to get feedback on submitted fraud prevention
headers. It will provide detailed feedback on the most recent request to each
endpoint of a supported API.
.TP 3
.B api
This is required and specifies what API to retrieve the header validation
information for. It can be one of the following
.PP
.RS 8
business-details-mtd
.br
business-income-source-summary-mtd
.br
business-source-adjustable-summary-mtd
.br
cis-deductions-mtd
.br
individual-calculations-mtd
.br
individual-losses-mtd
.br
individuals-business-end-of-period-statement-mtd
.br
individuals-charges-mtd
.br
individuals-disclosures-mtd
.br
individuals-expenses-mtd
.br
individuals-income-received-mtd
.br
individuals-reliefs-mtd
.br
individuals-state-benefits-mtd
.br
obligations-mtd
.br
other-deductions-mtd
.br
property-business-mtd
.br
self-assessment-mtd
.br
self-assessment-accounts-mtd
.br
vat-mtd
.RE

.TP
.B query_string
.RS 4
This is optional and is in the form
.RE
.PP
.RS 8
?connectionMethod=CONNECTION_METHOD
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
Where CONNECTION_METHOD is one of the following
.RE
.PP
.RS 8
BATCH_PROCESS_DIRECT
.br
DESKTOP_APP_DIRECT
.br
DESKTOP_APP_VIA_SERVER
.br
MOBILE_APP_DIRECT
.br
MOBILE_APP_VIA_SERVER
.br
OTHER_DIRECT
.br
OTHER_VIA_SERVER
.br
WEB_APP_VIA_SERVER
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
and will apply this as a filter to the query.
.RE

.TP
.B buf
.RS 4
This is the result buffer containing the JSON result string. It should be
\fBfree(3)\fP'd when no longer needed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE

On success, zero (\fBMTD_ERR_NONE\fP) is returned. On error, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH ERRORS

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_OS
There was an OS level failure

.TP 4
.B -MTD_ERR_REQUEST
The API request returned a status code >= 300

.TP
.B -MTD_ERR_CURL
There was a problem with the curl request itself

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR libmtdac (3),
.BR libmtdac_mtd.h (3),
.BR libmtdac-result_buffer (3)
